In this lesson, we're going to demonstrate
how to
use the continue statement to cause a
While loop
to stop in the middle of executing the
body
and continue with the next iteration of
the loop.
Which means, just moving back to the top
and testing the
relational expression, then continuing
back into the body of the loop.
Let me show you the general form of the
continue statement first and then we'll
look at an example.
So we have our While loop and our
relational expression.
Then we could have some statements or not,
just depends on the situation.
And then continue and then more
statements.
So what happens is is that usually
continue
will be based on some sort of condition.
So if that condition is true, and the
continue
statement appears, so let's put it in its
context.
If, I'm not saying that this is the
only way continue is used, but it
frequently is.
So let's go over the loop again.
So we go into the loop, we execute
some statements, then we test a relational
expression.
If that relational expression is true, and
the continue is executed, then control is
transferred back to the top of the
loop and the relational expression is
tested again.
If not and in the other statements are
executed and then
the control is transferred back to the top
of the loop.
So continue is used if a condition occurs
that causes us to
not want the remaining statements in the
loop body to be executed.
Let's look at an example of how that's
going to work.
So we're gonna call this Python program
continue.
What we're going to do is we're going to
write a
program that will take a numerator and
denominator and display the quotient.
The numerator and the denominator will be
set by the user.
And we need a signal value here as to when
to stop, so we're going to say negative 1.
And that's just an arbitrary value chosen
as a sentinel.
The first thing we're going to do is
prompt the user to enter a numerator.
Convert the input into floating point just
to be on the
safe side then we'll ask the user to enter
a denominator and
we'll get the input from the user.
Now, here's where we'll provide our check.
If the denominator is equal to 0, then we
want to continue.
Otherwise, we want to print the numerator
divided by the denominator.
And, that's the whole of our program.
And, then we'll stop, when the
denominator's negative 1.
So let's exit and save,and then run the
program and see what we get.
So
we'll draw a simple one, 4 and 2.
It's 2.0.
Notice that it displays it in floating
point.
Let's try another one, 34 and 13.
There is 2.615.
Now, let's try the one with a zero.
So, we'll say 12 and 0 and notice what
happened.
We entered a 0 and it takes us right back
to the
top of the loop, where it asks us to enter
another numerator.
So, we'll enter another numerator and a
denominator.
Then will enter numerator and a negative
1,
and the program stops after it displays
the result.
So look at the program again.
What we're trying to do is we're trying
to find a particular condition,
denominator equals 0.
And avoiding it by not allowing it to
actually display
the result, which in most computer
languages is an error.
So by doing that we just say continue.
And then, because denominator is not equal
to negative 1, the program brings
control back to the top and it asks us to
enter a new numerator.
So that's how the continue statement is
used.
Now we're ready to move to the next lesson
where we're going to
look at another way to change the flow of
control of a while loop.
And that's using the break statement to
immediately
exit a loop when a certain condition
occurs.